docs(wait-states): document the Wait States feature (8.10) (#9153)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/components/operate/userguide/view-wait-states.md

---
id: view-wait-states
title: View wait states
description: "Learn how to see what an active process instance is waiting for in Operate."
---

See what an active process instance is waiting for in Camunda 8 Operate.

## Prerequisites

To follow the steps in this guide, you must be [authorized to view wait states](../../wait-states/overview.md#access-control) for the relevant process definition.

## View wait states

When a process instance is active, you can inspect its active elements to see what each one is waiting for:

> 1. On the **Processes** page, in the **Process Instances** table, click the **Process Instance Key** of the instance you want to inspect.

Author: False positive — **Process Instance Key** is a UI element label (bold, referring to the column name in the Operates process instances table). The same phrasing is used verbatim in `audit-operations.md` and `resolve-incidents-update-variables.md`, both of which pass vale. No change needed.

> 2. In the process diagram, click an active element that has a wait state indicator.

Reviewer: 🔧 We could specify more concretely what the user actually needs to search for:

```suggestion
2. In the process diagram, click an active element that has a **Waiting** label indicator on top.
```

> 3. Review the wait state details in the element details panel — for example, the message name and correlation key for a receive task, or the due date for a timer.

Reviewer: 🔧 Some styling and "tab" instead of panel.

```suggestion
3. Review the wait state details in the element **Details** tab — for example, the message name and correlation key for a receive task, or the due date for a timer.
```

An element shows a single wait state indicator even when multiple tokens are present on it. For timers, the earliest due date is shown.

> <!-- TODO: add a screenshot of the Operate wait state indicators once the UI is finalized. -->

Reviewer: For this I need to create a docs-screenshots test.
I'll create an issue for this.
